Updates to CONTRIBUTING.md (#2090)
cocotb/cocotb: CONTRIBUTING.md

#### Tests and Coverage

Cocotb has a suite of unit tests (located in the `tests` directory) and examples (located in the `examples` directory) which are functional acceptance tests for Github pull requests.
If pull requests cannot pass *all* of these tests, it  will likely be rejected.
To ensure cocotb only includes the highest quality code, these test should be *very strenuous*.
We use code coverage as a quantifiable metric of the "exhaustiveness" of these tests and want this metric to increase.

Working this task requires a familiarity with

* Cocotb's core functionality
* How to write Verilog and VHDL
* How to write cocotb tests in Python
* (Optionally) Codecov; coverage agregator and Github bot
* (Optionally) the [coverage]() module, for Python code coverage
* (Optionally) [gcov](), for C++ code coverage
* (Optionally) Travis CI and Github Actions, for automatic acceptance testing

Cocotb's regression tests can be improved by

* Testing more of cocotb's core functionality
* Testing corner cases left out of the current set of tests (identifying them by looking at code coverage)
* Increasing the matrix of simulators, operating system, and Python installations tested in CI

> Testing improvements don't require maintainer buy-in, but require a pull request.

Author: I mention "buy-in" a lot. Is there a better word? Should I add another section describing what that is, or maybe add it to the "How to Get Changes Merged" section and link it every time I mention it?

Author: Renamed to "pre-approval".

# Cocotb Contribution Guidelines

Welcome to the cocotb development!
We are an inclusive community with the common goal of improving the cocotb, a coroutine based cosimulation library for writing VHDL and Verilog testbenches in Python.
This guide explains how to contribute to cocotb, and documents the processes we agreed on to manage the project.
All processes in this document are designed to streamline the development effort, to avoid bottlenecks, and to ultimately give a pleasant experience to all involved.

## Getting Help

Cocotb is a diverse and challenging project to contribute to.
If you ever feel lost, out of your depth, or simply want to know more, the [cocotb gitter](https://gitter.im/cocotb/Lobby) channel is actively watched by many cocotb users, contributors, and maintainers.
It is a good idea if you are unsure whether your problem or question is worthy of a Github Issue to first post it to the gitter channel.
You may also ask questions in [Github issues](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues).

> If you don't receive any response on the gitter or a Github issue, or you want help privately, you may directly contact a [maintainer](#maintainers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't receive any response on the gitter channel or a Github issue, or you want help privately, you may directly contact a [maintainer](#maintainers).
```

## What to Work On

There is *a lot* of work to do on this project, no matter your area of expertise or skill level.

If you are a beginner there are several [Github issues](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues) marked [`good first issue`](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) you can look at.
There are also a number of things you can work on that aren't in Github issues and don't require in-depth knowledge of the cocotb internals.
They including the following:

* Documentation improvements

> * Managing Github issues and the gitter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Managing Github issues and the gitter channel
```

* Testing and coverage improvements

Cocotb is still not perfect. There are plenty of [bug fixes](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atype%3Abug) and [features])(https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atype%3Afeature) that can be worked.
Most of these are recorded as Github issues.

### Documentation

Cocotb's documentation is always open to improvements.
Improving documentation will help users better understand and use cocotb;
and may decrease the number of questions the gitter and Github issue page.
Updating documentation requires the following:

* A good grasp on English
* [reStructuredText](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/rst.html)
* [Sphinx documentation generator](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/)
* [Markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org/)

> Some documentation should be located in the official documentation on [ReadTheDocs](https://docs.cocotb.org/en/latest/),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some documentation should be located in the official documentation on [Read the Docs/RTD](https://docs.cocotb.org/en/latest/),
```

while the rest belongs on the [Wiki](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/wiki).
There are several ways to improve the documentation:

* Better documenting core functionality (RTD)
* Documenting common "gotchas" (RTD)
* Documenting difficult and niche use cases (Wiki)
* Documenting common design patterns (Wiki)
* Documenting internal components (Wiki)

See the documentation on [building the documentation](#Building-Documentation-Locally) and the [guidelines on submitting pull requests](#patch-requirements).
Documentation improvements typically require no maintainer pre-approval; you can simply work on the documentation and open a pull request.
Documentation on the Wiki does not require a pull request; any user with a Github account can contribute to it.
Please be responsible with that power.

### Project Management

The cocotb project is [fairly popular](https://larsasplund.github.io/github-facts/verification-practices.html#frameworks) and the

> [gitter](https://gitter.im/cocotb/Lobby) and

Reviewer: Is calling it "the gitter" common?

Author: Beats me. I'll update all the references to "gitter channel".

Author: ```suggestion
[gitter channel](https://gitter.im/cocotb/Lobby) and
```

[Github issues](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb) page receive a fair amount of traffic;
which is only expected to increase.
People are needed to categorize issues and pull requests, and respond to questions.
Working this task is the quickest way to learn how cocotb works.
Tending to this task requires the following:

* people skills
* an understanding of the scope of cocotb
* general understanding about how cocotb works

Someone working this task should set notifications on the gitter channel to be notified of any new comments.
They should also "watch" the Github repo by selecting the "Watching" notification level button in the upper right corner of the main Github page.

> Finally, they should notify the maintainers they are able and willing to accept questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, they should notify the maintainers that they are able and willing to accept questions.
```
?

To be able to add labels and close issues and PRs you will need special permissions.
Contact a [maintainer](#maintainer) if you are interested in receiving these permissions.
They will be granted according to the project's need and the requestor's familiarity with cocotb.
Once you have those permissions, see the guidelines on [managing issues and pull requests](#Managing-of-Issues-and-Pull-Requests).

This task can still be done without special repo permissions.
The best way to accomplish this is to comment on the issue or PR.
This is especially helpful for Github issues about bugs.

> If you can duplicate the bug or confirm the bug report is invalid, that help maintainers *a lot*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you can duplicate the bug or confirm the bug report is invalid, that helps maintainers *a lot*.
```

### Tests and Coverage

Cocotb has a suite of unit tests (located in the `tests` directory) and examples (located in the `examples` directory) which are functional acceptance tests.
If a pull request cannot pass *all* of these tests, it will likely be rejected.
To ensure cocotb only includes the highest quality code, these test should be exhaustive.
We use code coverage as a quantifiable metric of the "exhaustiveness" of these tests, and wish to improve this metric.

Working this task requires a familiarity with:

* Cocotb's core functionality
* How to write Verilog and VHDL
* How to write cocotb tests in Python

> * (Optionally) [codecov](https://docs.codecov.io/docs); coverage agregator and Github bot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* (Optionally) [codecov](https://docs.codecov.io/docs); coverage aggregator and Github bot
```

*** TODO ***

Must have a Minimum Reproducible Failing Example (MRFE, pronounced "Murphy", like the law ;).
This tests should be committed separately of the fix, and the commit pushed to Github.
This *should* cause the CI to fail.
A link to the CI failure should be included in the pull request.

Bugfixes may require in-depth knowledge of many codebases.
Bugs affecting only certain simulators likely require an understanding of the simulator to properly debug.

Link to Wiki on debugging how-tos.

### Deprecations and Removals

Cocotb's treatment of deprecations and removal follows guidelines laid out [here](https://symfony.com/doc/current/setup/upgrade_major.html#make-your-code-deprecation-free).
Deprecations serve the following purposes:

* Remove legacy code that has been deemed out of scope
* Remove support for a simulator, OS, or Python version that is past end-of-life
* Remove potentially dangerous, broken, and misunderstood interfaces (usually accompanied with a superior alternative)

Deprecations can be incorporated at any time.
They are typically implemented by [issuing a `DeprecationWarning`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/warnings.html#warnings.warn) in Python code;

> or [issuing a LOG_WARN](https://docs.cocotb.org/en/stable/generated/file/gpi__logging_8h.html?highlight=LOG_WARN#c.LOG_WARN) with `DEPRECATED` in the message in C cocde.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or [issuing a LOG_WARN](https://docs.cocotb.org/en/stable/generated/file/gpi__logging_8h.html?highlight=LOG_WARN#c.LOG_WARN) with `DEPRECATED` in the message in C++ code.
```

Otherwise, tox will print a green `:)`.

To run the tests locally on Linux or Mac, issue the following command.

```command
tox -e py3
```

On Windows, issue the following command.

```command
tox -e py3_mingw
```

`tox` supports the usage of the environment variables `SIM` and `TOPLEVEL_LANG` to select a simulator and language to run the regression.
By default the tests will attempt to run with the Icarus Verilog simulator.
For example, if you wanted to run tests with GHDL on Linux or Mac, you would issue the following command.

```command
SIM=ghdl TOPLEVEL_LANG=vhdl tox -e py3
```

## Building Documentation Locally

First, [set up your development environment](#setting-up-a-development-environment).

Documentation is built locally using `tox`.
The last message in the output will contain a URL to the documentation you just built.
Simply copy and paste the link into your browser to view it.
The documentation will be built in the same location on your hard drive on every run, so you only have to refresh the page to see new changes.

To build the documentation locally on Linux or Mac, issue the following command.

```command
tox -e docs
```

> Building the documentation is not currently support on Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building the documentation is not currently supported on Windows.
```

All processes in this document are designed to streamline the development effort, to avoid bottlenecks, and to ultimately give a pleasant experience to all involved.

## Getting Help

Cocotb is a diverse and challenging project to contribute to.

> If you ever feel lost, out of your depth, or simply want to know more, the [cocotb gitter channel](https://gitter.im/cocotb/Lobby) is actively watched by many cocotb users, contributors, and maintainers.
> It is a good idea if you are unsure whether your problem or question is worthy of a Github Issue to first post it to the gitter channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you ever feel lost, out of your depth, or simply want to know more, the [cocotb Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/cocotb/Lobby) is actively watched by many cocotb users, contributors, and maintainers.
It is a good idea if you are unsure whether your problem or question is worthy of a Github Issue to first post it to the Gitter channel.
```
They spell themselves with a capital G.

You may also ask questions in [Github issues](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues).

> If you don't receive any response on the gitter channel or a Github issue, or you want help privately, you may directly contact a [maintainer](#maintainers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't receive any response on the Gitter channel or a Github issue, or you want help privately, you may directly contact a [maintainer](#maintainers).
```
I'm not so sure about the explicit "private help" invitation. Maybe just say something like "Please ring again after a while."?

## What to Work On

There is *a lot* of work to do on this project, no matter your area of expertise or skill level.

If you are a beginner there are several [Github issues](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues) marked [`good first issue`](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) you can look at.
There are also a number of things you can work on that aren't in Github issues and don't require in-depth knowledge of the cocotb internals.
They including the following:

* Documentation improvements

> * Managing Github issues and the gitter channel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Managing Github issues and the Gitter channel
```

* Testing and coverage improvements

> Cocotb is still not perfect. There are plenty of [bug fixes](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atype%3Abug) and [features])(https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atype%3Afeature) that can be worked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cocotb is still not perfect. There are plenty of [bug fixes](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atype%3Abug) and [features])(https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atype%3Afeature) that can be worked on.
```

> Cocotb is still not perfect. There are plenty of [bug fixes](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atype%3Abug) and [features])(https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atype%3Afeature) that can be worked on.

Author: ```suggestion
Cocotb is still not perfect. There are plenty of [bug fixes](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atype%3Abug) and [features](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atype%3Afeature) that can be worked on.
```

Most of these are recorded as Github issues.

### Documentation

Cocotb's documentation is always open to improvements.
Improving documentation will help users better understand and use cocotb;

> and may decrease the number of questions the gitter channel and Github issue page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and may decrease the number of questions the Gitter channel and Github issue page.
```

> Updating documentation requires the following:
> 
> * A good grasp on English

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updating documentation requires knowledge of:

```
Requiring "good" english might deter someone who feels unsure but is actually good enough. That one needs to have a certain level is obvious IMO.

* [Markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org/)
* [How to architect documentation](https://documentation.divio.com/)

Some documentation should be located in the official documentation on [Read the Docs/RTD](https://docs.cocotb.org/en/latest/),
while the rest belongs on the [Wiki](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/wiki).
There are several ways to improve the documentation:

* Better documenting core functionality (RTD)
* Documenting common "gotchas" (RTD)
* Documenting difficult and niche use cases (Wiki)
* Documenting common design patterns (Wiki)
* Documenting internal components (Wiki)

See the documentation on [building the documentation](#Building-Documentation-Locally) and the [guidelines on submitting pull requests](#patch-requirements).
Documentation improvements typically require no maintainer pre-approval; you can simply work on the documentation and open a pull request.
Documentation on the Wiki does not require a pull request; any user with a Github account can contribute to it.
Please be responsible with that power.

### Project Management

The cocotb project is [fairly popular](https://larsasplund.github.io/github-facts/verification-practices.html#frameworks) and the

> [gitter channel](https://gitter.im/cocotb/Lobby) and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/cocotb/Lobby) and
```

[Github issues](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb) page receive a fair amount of traffic;
which is only expected to increase.
People are needed to categorize issues and pull requests, and respond to questions.
Working this task is the quickest way to learn how cocotb works.
Tending to this task requires the following:

* people skills
* an understanding of the scope of cocotb
* general understanding about how cocotb works

> Someone working this task should set notifications on the gitter channel to be notified of any new comments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Someone working this task should set notifications on the Gitter channel to be notified of any new comments.
```

They should also "watch" the Github repo by selecting the "Watching" notification level button in the upper right corner of the main Github page.
Finally, they should notify the maintainers that they are able and willing to accept questions.

To be able to add labels and close issues and PRs you will need special permissions.
Contact a [maintainer](#maintainer) if you are interested in receiving these permissions.
They will be granted according to the project's need and the requestor's familiarity with cocotb.
Once you have those permissions, see the guidelines on [managing issues and pull requests](#Managing-of-Issues-and-Pull-Requests).

> This task can still be done without special repo permissions.
> The best way to accomplish this is to comment on the issue or PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This task can also be done without special repo permissions, by just commenting on the issue or PR.
```

This is especially helpful for Github issues about bugs.
If you can duplicate the bug or confirm the bug report is invalid, that helps maintainers *a lot*.

### Tests and Coverage

Cocotb has a suite of unit tests (located in the `tests` directory) and examples (located in the `examples` directory) which are functional acceptance tests.
If a pull request cannot pass *all* of these tests, it will likely be rejected.
To ensure cocotb only includes the highest quality code, these test should be exhaustive.
We use code coverage as a quantifiable metric of the "exhaustiveness" of these tests, and wish to improve this metric.

> Working this task requires a familiarity with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Working on this task requires a familiarity with:
```
?

* (Optionally) [Github Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/actions), for automatic acceptance testing

Cocotb's regression tests can be improved by:

* Testing more of cocotb's core functionality
* Testing corner cases left out of the current set of tests (identified by looking at code coverage)
* Increasing the matrix of simulators, operating system, and Python installations tested in CI

Testing improvements don't require maintainer pre-approval, but require a pull request.
Please see the [guidelines on submitting pull requests](#patch-requirements).

### Features

Cocotb is still in development and new features are still welcome and appreciated;
as long as they stay [in scope](#Architecture-and-Scope-of-Cocotb).
Cocotb is comprised of several major codebases, each requiring different sets of skills and development process.
Instead of including that breakdown here, it is done in the [internal documentation](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/wiki/cocotb-Internals).

Small improvements to existing features generally do not require maintainer pre-approval.
Large changes, approximately >150 LOC changed, and new features generally require maintainer pre-approval.

> 

Reviewer: This section should say something about that a feature can potentially also be developed as an extension.

***New features must not break existing features.***

Feature changes require full coverage of the added feature.
This likely requires adding new unit tests to the `tests` directory.
Issue-specific test directories will not be accepted, unless a special HDL entity is required.

> Instead, place the test in an existing test suite (test_cocotb, test_discovery, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, place the test in an existing test suite (`test_cocotb`, `test_discovery`, etc.).
```

Features should generally follow the following design principles:

* Something the user cannot do without assistance of cocotb-specific code
* Orthogonal to existing features
* Easily composed with existing features
* Limited in scope and impervious to scope creep

### Bugfixes

**!WARNING!** Bugfixing cocotb is not for the faint of heart!

Bugs happen.
cocotb supports many simulators that have inconsistent support for the procedural interfaces cocotb depends on,
and it has a number of features that aren't wholly tested yet.
There are likely many bugs lurking, waiting to be found;
which is why increasing testing and code coverage is important.
Working on bugfixing can be very challenging, depending on the cause of the bug.

> In general, bugfixing requires:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, bugfixing requires knowledge of:
```

* How cocotb works
* cocotb's debugging utilities

> * (Optional) Simulator interfaces (VPI, VHPI, and FLI)

Author: Links to LRM?

Reviewer: VPI could be done; but someone doing bugfixes in that area will know where to get the LRMs.

Author: Yeah... too bad.

* (Optional) Python debugging tools (pdb, cherrypy)

> * (Optional) C/C++ debugging tools (gdb, valgrind)

Author: Links into Wiki on how to use each of these tools. Will create stubs at a minimum before finishing the PR.

You can see the list of [maintainers](#maintainers) below.

## What to Work On

> There is *a lot* of work to do on this project, no matter your area of expertise or skill level.

Reviewer: Maybe though we should also say that we try to keep the core small, and that some/most new features belong in extensions.

Author: I am trying to be as motivational as possible in this section. We will dash their hope in the "scope" section, which should probably be expanded as well.

If you are a beginner there are several [Github issues](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues) marked [`good first issue`](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) you can look at.

> There are also a number of thins you can work on that *aren't* in Github issues;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are also a number of things you can work on that *aren't* in Github issues;
```

including the following

* Documentation improvements
* Managing Github issues and the gitter
* Test and coverage improvement

#### Documentation

Cocotb's documentation is always open to improvements.
Improving documentation will help users better understand and use cocotb;
and may decrease the number of questions the gitter and Github issue page see.
Updating documentation requires the following.

* A good grasp on English

> * An understanding of [Markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org/)

Reviewer: Markdown should come last in the list, certainly after ReST.

* [reStructuredText](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/rst.html)
* [Sphinx documentation generator](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/)

> Some documentation should be located in the official documentation on [ReadTheDocs](https://docs.cocotb.org/en/stable/),

Reviewer: Link to "latest" here, since that's what someone would write PRs against.

while the rest belongs on the [Wiki](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/wiki).

> There are several ways to improve the documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several ways to improve the documentation:
```
?

* Better documenting core functionality (RTD)
* Documenting common "gotchas" (RTD)
* Documenting difficult and niche use cases (Wiki)
* Documenting common design patterns (Wiki)
* Documenting internal components (Wiki)

> 

Reviewer: https://documentation.divio.com/ should be mentioned somewhere here as the guiding "system".

Author: I add this a bullet point in the list of required knowledge. Is that good enough? I didn't want to get into explaining it, since they would do it better :)

Reviewer: Fine with me, thanks!

Documentation improvements typically require no maintainer buy-in.
You can simply work on the documentation and open a pull request.
Please see the guidelines on submitting [pull requests](#patch-requirements).
Documentation on the Wiki does not require a pull request, and any user with a Github account can contribute to it.
Please be responsible with that power.

#### Project Management

The cocotb project is [fairly popular](https://larsasplund.github.io/github-facts/verification-practices.html#frameworks) and the
[gitter](https://gitter.im/cocotb/Lobby) and

> [Github issues](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb) page recieve a fair amount of traffic;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Github issues](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb) page receive a fair amount of traffic;
```

which is only expected to increase.
People are needed to categorize issues and pull requests, and respond to questions.

> Working this task is the quickest way to learn how cocotb works and become familiar with how cocotb works.

Reviewer: The words before and after the "and" are saying essentially the same thing, no?

Author: Whoops. Partial refactor.

> Tending to this task requires the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tending to this task requires the following:
```
?

* people skills
* an understanding of the scope of cocotb
* general knowledge about how cocotb works

To be able to add labels and close issues and PRs you will need special permissions.

> Contact a [maintainer](#maintainer) if you are interested in recieving these permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contact a [maintainer](#maintainer) if you are interested in receiving these permissions.
```

They will be granted according to need and the requestor's familiarity with cocotb.
Please see the guidelines on [managing issues and pull requests](#Managing-of-Issues-and-Pull-Requests).

Someone obliging this task should set notifications on the gitter channel to be notified of any new comments.
They should also "watch" the Github repo by selecting the "Watching" notification level button in the upper right corner of the main Github page.
Finally, they should notifying the maintainers they are able and willing to accept questions.

This task can still be done without labeling and closing permissions.
The best way to accomplish this is to comment on the issue or PR.
This is especially helpful for Github issues about bugs.
If you can duplicate the bug or confirm the bug report is invalid, that help maintainers *a lot*.

#### Tests and Coverage

> Cocotb a suite of unit tests (located in the `tests` directory) and examples (located in the `examples` directory) which are functional acceptance tests for Github pull requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cocotb has a suite of unit tests (located in the `tests` directory) and examples (located in the `examples` directory) which are functional acceptance tests for Github pull requests.
```

They can and should be challenged at times to ensure the project stays relevant to the majority of its users.

## Maintainer Pre-approval

After making changes to cocotb, changes must be approved by at least one maintainer before being included.
Out-of-scope and breaking changes ***will not be accepted***.
Also a maintainer could object to a change due to implementation approach or code quality reasons.

> To potentially save your frustration and time, it is a good idea to get maintainer pre-approval on the task before starting it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To potentially save you frustration and time, it is a good idea to get maintainer pre-approval on the task before starting it.
```
?

```

Once that has been done, you can navigate to the directory containing the test you wish to run.

> Then you may issue an [appropriate]https://docs.cocotb.org/en/latest/building.html#makefile-based-test-scripts) `make` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then you may issue an [appropriate](https://docs.cocotb.org/en/latest/building.html#makefile-based-test-scripts) `make` command.
```

They can and should be challenged at times to ensure the project stays relevant to the majority of its users.

## Maintainer Pre-approval

After making changes to cocotb, changes must be approved by at least one maintainer before being included.
Out-of-scope and breaking changes ***will not be accepted***.
Also a maintainer could object to a change due to implementation approach or code quality reasons.
To potentially save you frustration and time, it is a good idea to get maintainer pre-approval on the task before starting it.

The best way to get maintainer pre-approval is to make a [Github issue](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb/issues).
These issues can be a place for maintainers, as well as other users, to voice opinions on a proposed change before the task is worked.

> You may also propose changes on the [gitter channel](https://gitter.im/cocotb/Lobby) or by directly contacting a [maintainer](#maintainer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may also propose changes on the [Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/cocotb/Lobby) or by directly contacting a [maintainer](#maintainer).
```

- Chris Higgs (@chiggs)
- Stuart Hodgson (@stuarthodgson)

### Getting in Contact with a Maintainer

> Cocotb's maintainers are always open to direct inquiries.

Reviewer: Not sure about this section, we may be advertising more than we can fulfill.
It may also be a good idea to mention that we are "unpaid volunteers" or at least not paid support staff.

> All of the maintainers are active on the [gitter channel](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb).
> They prefer those direct inquiries go through direct messages on gitter,
> or by mentioning them in the main [cocotb gitter channel](https://gitter.im/cocotb/Lobby) using `@{maintainer name}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of the maintainers are active on the [Gitter channel](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb).
They prefer those direct inquiries go through direct messages on Gitter,
or by mentioning them in the main [cocotb Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/cocotb/Lobby) using `@{maintainer name}`.
```
